docs: add Yield Boost protocol docs and assertions social card (#1350)
Consensys/doc.linea: docs/protocol/yield-boost-architecture.mdx

| Beacon Chain deposit | StakingVault | Validators | Node Operator decision | Node Operator |
| Report yield to L2 | synthetic MessageSent event | L2YieldDistributor | Automation Service | `YIELD_REPORTER_ROLE` |
| Operator replenish reserve | StakingVault | Linea bridge | Reserve below target | `YIELD_PROVIDER_UNSTAKER_ROLE` |
| Permissionless unstake | Validators | StakingVault | Reserve below minimum | Permissionless |
| Permissionless replenish reserve | StakingVault | Linea bridge | Reserve below minimum | Permissionless |
| LST withdrawal | Lido Protocol (minted against StakingVault collateral) | User | Insufficient ETH for user withdrawal | Permissionless (user) |
| Ossification withdrawal | StakingVault | Linea bridge | Security Council initiates | `OSSIFICATION_INITIATOR_ROLE` + `OSSIFICATION_PROCESSOR_ROLE` |
| Donation | External | Linea bridge / StakingVault | Voluntary | Permissionless |

## Next steps

See the [Yield Boost overview](/network/overview/yield-boost/) page for a more general overview of Yield Boost, including the user experience and withdrawal resilience strategy.

> See the [Security Council record](/changelog/security-council-record/) page for a record of Security Council transactions.

Reviewer: @allywhiting there must be a meeting at which yield boost was approved, suggest linking direct

- **Node operator:** The Linea-assigned validator bound to the agreed deposit trigger to stake ETH from the stVault, and validate the beacon chain to earn rewards.
- **`NativeYieldAutomationService`:** An offchain service that executes onchain routine operations, including yield reporting, rebalancing the liquidity buffer, and settling system obligations. It operates in a default `YIELD_REPORTING` mode and switches to an `OSSIFICATION_PROCESSOR` mode if the Security Council initiates the [ossification process](#6-ossification-withdrawal).
- **`LidoUpgradeMonitor`:** An offchain service that monitors Lido's onchain governance for contract upgrade proposals and alerts the Security Council.

### L1 ETH flow

When a user deposits ETH from Ethereum Mainnet (L1) into the Linea bridge to use it on Linea (L2), that ETH remains on the L1 and may be staked on Ethereum’s beacon chain to earn rewards. The following components manage how that ETH moves from the bridge contract into staking, how rewards are handled, and how the ETH is returned to the user on the L1 when they withdraw it from Linea.

> - **Native token bridge:** Linea bridge contract on L1; holds user-deposited ETH and receives staking yield.

Reviewer 2: The `token bridge` is a separate concept that handles ERC-20s  this is the Canonical Bridge (exclude token)

Also, it does not "receive" the yield as we are using synthetic messages to send the positive yield to L2

- **[Lido Oracle Committee](https://docs.lido.fi/token-guides/steth-superuser-functions/#oracle-and-accounting-flow):** A 5-of-9 committee of independent operators who monitor validator states and submit regular, audited reports to Lido's smart contracts.
- **Node operator:** The Linea-assigned entity bound to the agreed deposit trigger to stake ETH from the stVault, and validate the beacon chain to earn rewards.
- **`NativeYieldAutomationService`:** An offchain service that executes onchain routine operations, including yield reporting, rebalancing the liquidity buffer, and settling system obligations. It operates in a default `YIELD_REPORTING` mode and switches to an `OSSIFICATION_PROCESSOR` mode if the Security Council initiates the [ossification process](#6-ossification-withdrawal).
- **`LidoUpgradeMonitor`:** An offchain service that monitors Lido's onchain governance for contract upgrade proposals and alerts the Security Council.

### L1 ETH flow

> When a user deposits ETH from Ethereum Mainnet (L1) into the `LineaRollup` contract to use it on Linea (L2), that ETH remains on the L1 and may be staked on Ethereum’s beacon chain to earn rewards. The following components manage how that ETH moves from the `LineaRollup` into the staking vault, how rewards are handled, and how the ETH is returned to the user on the L1 when they withdraw it from Linea.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user deposits ETH from Ethereum Mainnet (L1) into the `LineaRollup` contract to use it on Linea (L2), that ETH remains on the L1 and may be staked on Ethereum’s beacon chain to earn rewards. The following components manage how that ETH moves from the `LineaRollup` into the `StakingVault` how rewards are handled, and how the ETH is returned to the user on the L1 when they withdraw it from Linea.
```
